Hello,
>> welcome everyone to this week's Stella
developer meeting. Today joining me are
Francisco and Estan from Pzelabs.
Pzelabs should be familiar to to any of
of you who's been in the community for a
while. They have been they have been
building on Stella for yeah way longer
than I have. So welcome guys and  yeah
than I have. So welcome guys and yeah
just please do quick introduction and
and then we'll get started.
Great.
>> Thank you, Carson. My name is Estean. I
am  building patals since  2022
am building patals since 2022
where we met  all the stellar team
where we met all the stellar team
back in Meridian Rome. Since then we
have been building  source undefined
have been building source undefined
and in this presentation we will explain
a bit more that Francisco.
Yeah, I'm I'm Francisco
CPO Baltabs
and we are excited to
to present the the the hackathon and
motivate everyone to build here.
>> Yeah, as a as a quick yeah, a quick
>> Yeah, as a as a quick yeah, a quick
comment, we are with Francisco. We are
currently at the Draper Draper
University in San Francisco. So I will
encourage all developers to to join all
the programs like grants programs that
stellar has because like the
opportunities that you can get like we
are getting now like currently I am in
the dorms of the draper university the
opportunities is they're they're really
great.
Yeah, Draperu is a program we started is
a collaboration between Stellar and
Draper University we started last year
and continuing this year where  like
and continuing this year where like
like you guys you stay for three weeks
go through a really intense program
with a lots of different things
everything from business to yeah the
financial parts and it's a great program
but that's not what we're talking
about today.  you are running
about today. you are running
you're running a hackathon with Stella
hacks and  I think  to lead up to
hacks and I think to lead up to
that to talk about the hackathon  the
that to talk about the hackathon the
idea is that in the hackathon that the
participants are building on on either
source or on defendex or both.  so
source or on defendex or both. so
maybe we start with an introduction what
is what is  source swap and what is
is what is source swap and what is
defendex and what can you build on that?
So yeah, please take us through the the
the the basics of of of both products.
>> Thank you, Caren.
Please, Francisco,
>> I will share the screen.
>> Great. So
ster hacks with the ster hacks you can
swap and build build vaults with palas
source app and defendex.
So let's talk a bit about source and
then we will talk a bit about defendex.
If you have questions I think you can
write them in the chat right. So I will
stop if anyone has any questions we will
stop there and maybe we can share more
our screens we can take a look at the
codes etc.
Source is a DEX and a DEX aggregator on
the STA blockchain
and  as a brief introduction it was
and as a brief introduction it was
the first DEX built on Surban on the
smart contract side of the stellar and
we aggregates liquidity from multiple
multiple liquidity sources or multiple
multiple platforms. So on the right you
have like a swap that
got gets loaded through Soros swap, Aqua
and Clinics AMMs.
In order for you to understand like the
tech of Soros and  so you can have
tech of Soros and so you can have
like more ideas on how you can hack and
build on top of source you need to
understand that source has three
components.
it. There is the AMM then we have the
aggregator that aggregates is a smart
contract and then we have a road API. So
our road API is the one that will that
that will that will  optimize
that will that will optimize
your trade that will be executed on
the regulator and if you get a trade
that will go through source AMM it will
go through our pools.
Source of AMM is where you can create
liquidity pools. If you want to do like
a simple swap or if you are building a a
protocol that needs a liquidity pool,
you can create a list liquidity pool on
our AMM. It's a classic swap version two
type of AMM. And we have a router
contract that does everything for you.
So you can create new pairs through the
rotor contract. You can add liquidity
through the router contract. remove
liquidity and swap through only one
contract. So you only need to understand
this one router contract and
we will put the links later but it's
github.comsource
core. So  all the core smart contracts
core. So all the core smart contracts
are in that core repository.
now I am reading the comments sorry.
Yeah hacks. Yeah let's go. Great. And
then we have the aggregator. If  you
then we have the aggregator. If you
want to aggregate multiple protocols we
already built a contract that handles
all those transactions. So you don't
need to think about aqua. You don't need
to think about  Fenix or source. you
to think about Fenix or source. you
need only need to inter interact with
only one contract and then inside that
aggregator contract we have we have all
the adapters that will help your
transaction go through all those
different AMMs
next slide please.
So this is how it looks a transaction
through the
simple. So you just put token in, token
out, the amount you want in, the minimum
amount you want out, and but the tricky
part is this dex distribution like how
you distribute your trade between
different exchanges, between different
dexes.
And this is how  yeah, no next one.
And this is how yeah, no next one.
So you will need to create this object
but you don't need to calculate it
yourself. We have it in our road API.
yeah one one back sorry the yeah this
one.  this is how the transaction
one. this is how the transaction
looks like on the
on the ster on the ster explorer.  so
on the ster on the ster explorer. so
you put like how many parts you want of
one trade to go through protocol zero
which is  Aquarius how much part you
which is Aquarius how much part you
want to protocol two which is source up
yeah
any questions until now no through this
aggregator you can touch all those
liquidity sources it's only one contract
that your app or something that you are
building needs to interact with it's
only one contract and this contract will
execute all transactions and will do all
these subcontract calls necessary  for
these subcontract calls necessary for
that trade to go through.
So how do you get this optimal vector of
dex distribution? You can calculate
yourself or you can force it. So you
want you can force it  to go through
want you can force it to go through
like specific protocols. That's also
that's also a possibility but if not you
can use the API that  we have and this
can use the API that we have and this
is like the third part of  this source
is like the third part of this source
app tech stack.
we have a public API that anyone can
use. We created an a APK key API key for
for those that that are building on
the hackathon. So you can experiment
with our API and the easy thing the the
the cool thing is that you just put
what you want to trade, what are the
protocols that you want to implement and
then
returns you like what is the best way on
how you split the trade.
So  we have in the description of the
So we have in the description of the
hackathon there is a link to our postman
collection. If you want to  talk with
collection. If you want to talk with
the API you can go and check the postman
collection because it will make it much
easier for you how to interact with the
API.
And next one.
Yeah, this is the all the documentation
you need. We have  also an SDK. I
you need. We have also an SDK. I
forgot to put it in this in this slide,
but there is at source SDK. That's the
npm package on TypeScript if you are
building on TypeScript TypeScript. So
you don't even need to build all those
API calls. There a function for for for
it. And we have on the telegram group we
are sending  reposit example
are sending reposit example
repositories that of projects that use
our APIs.
There is a question here Matias
the distriution in this case will be the
60 3010 shown in the previous slide
right yes so in a in a previous slide
there was like this distribution of 60%
30% 10% and cor that's correct  that
30% 10% and cor that's correct that
the next distribution you say I want 10%
to go through Phoenix and the path will
be XLM direct to USDC
Then you put 30% I want it to go through
Aqua going from XLM to Aqua to USC
because I think or you think or your
program thinks that that's the best way
to do it and 80% to do it or 60% to do
it through Sora.
Yeah.
Great.
>> Yeah. And finally we in our in our
>> Yeah. And finally we in our in our
back end for our API we use the source
indexer and this project is completely
open source. So if you plan to build
something that requires information of
the traits on source, if requires
yeah if if if you need to build an
indexer or if you need to improve the
indexer that we have the link is on that
slide but it's  sorosab.com sorry
slide but it's sorosab.com sorry
github.com/sorosabsupql
which is the the technology that we are
using. We are using indexer with subql
and of course if you're more interested
talking the telegram  there is the
talking the telegram there is the
readmi has all the description on how
you create this indexer and yeah you can
build like maybe like a front end that
shows the last transactions or
a bot that will  send you a alert
a bot that will send you a alert
if there is like a
difference of price so you can buy a
token. something like that.
Does the source of indexer relies on
mercury? No, it doesn't.  the source
mercury? No, it doesn't. the source
the the SUQL
indexer it's its own  technology. It's
indexer it's its own technology. It's
on TypeScript.  there is like
on TypeScript. there is like
Docker. So you you you bring up  like
Docker. So you you you bring up like
three different Docker  containers.
three different Docker containers.
one which is like the worker which is
doing calls to the RPC all the time to
get the last test block and then it will
ingest it to another   container
ingest it to another container
that will check that there if there is
the event that you want to check and
then it will ingest the information to
to a local data database then later
it's  you can query it with graphql
So now the findex
I'm I'm not going to see the the
questions but so if the stean or cast
can tell me if there is any question.
>> Yeah cool you know
>> let me know. Well, so
the findex
we want to make easy.
So what is the findex? The findex
removes the technical complexity for
apps that want to offer savings accounts
for their users.
So you know that if if you're a wallet
or an application end user application
you may want to offer some sort of
savings account and at the same times
you have  defy protocols or real world
you have defy protocols or real world
assets that can provide you Jill to to
make this
this feature of savings accounts
possible but this is difficult h you
it's it's technical to it's too
technical to integrate defy  it's
technical to integrate defy it's
difficult to manage risk and difficult
to monetize on top of that and it's time
consuming
so we created the index to help with
that so our plugand play software
can make you earn when you uses earn
and all with that with without the
crypto complexity.
So
with the findex  if you're a wallet
with the findex if you're a wallet
you use our plan and play software and
you can offer yield to your users
and
this is done by using defy strategies.
So
you can use this device  diverse
you can use this device diverse
device strategies  to offer multiple
device strategies to offer multiple
options.  you have automation on the
options. you have automation on the
smart contract side
>> and you can always look for the best
earnings without the need to
for without the need of of the the user
signatures for every every movement.
So to understand the findex we need to
understand two main concepts one is
strategies and one is v. So for the
strategies
is the smart contract that connects
the defy the D5 protocol
is is the connection that we have with
D5 protocols and also  we can include
D5 protocols and also we can include
there some automation
that can benefit the users.
And then we have the vaults. The vaults
are the savings accounts.  it handles
are the savings accounts. it handles
all the fee distribution,
all the accounting for users.
It manage all the the
how many users you have, which which
user has
the the amount of the of the funds that
any user has etc.
So let's see an example. So this is
the blended strategy that we have right
now. We have it for USDC euro C also. So
we basically we lend USDC
to blend on in a blend pool. We
harvest the blend rewards. We swap this
blend rewards for more USDC and we lend
again. So we get this autoco compounding
effect on the on the blend blending and
borrowing protocol.
Then we on the b contract we can include
multiple strategies. So we you can
expose the users to multiple pools. In
this case, we we have this USDC strategy
on the blend fixed pool and on the blend
gel blocks pool at the same time. So
when a user deposits into the B
contract, the funds are distributed
automatically on both pools.  also if
automatically on both pools. also if
you want to you can have like one 100%
of the money in just one strategy. But
that could change in the future. So you
can move all the fonts of your users to
the the other strategy that is
performing better. And
that the the good thing is that the user
don't need to know that their phones
were moved.
You just move it.  but also you as a
You just move it. but also you as a
manager of the vault you you cannot take
the the funds of the user out.
then so this is what we have right
now. So if someone wants to create a new
strategy that could be  more
strategy that could be more
interesting like a leverage position
strategy,
you will need to implement the strategy
trade. So this is how it looks like. So
you just need to put code inside that
reflects the strategy you want to.  so
reflects the strategy you want to. so
this the strategy you want to do with
the find index  with the index
the find index with the index
just need to comply with this function
and if it complies with the function you
can plug it to  the index vault and
can plug it to the index vault and
that that strategy will be exposed for
any
wallet that want to offer that kind of
strategy.
Then on the board,
>> can I say a small comment on the
>> can I say a small comment on the
strategy?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So we we want to see more
more strategies, more ideas  that you
more strategies, more ideas that you
can come  maybe other more can be more
can come maybe other more can be more
risky maybe using other protocols.
, as Raso said, like the average
strategies, you can short one asset, you
can long like 9x with the current
like if if you if you if you check with
blend, you can lend borrow and then swap
and borrow again. So you can think about
those kind of things or even using other
protocols
>> like sa
Yeah. So that would be like a very good
idea of of a a hackathon project that
that works with both protocols as well.
Matias is asking for the harvest
function what will data will be options
this  byes.
this byes.
Very good question. So  because the
Very good question. So because the
strategy trait
is general for any kind of protocols
like say source swap blend
or normal or aqua fx dowo you don't know
we don't know  beforehand what what
we don't know beforehand what what
are the parameters that that harvest
function will need probably you will
need to submit some
like some instructions on how the
trade should be should be if there is a
swap
or not you know that's and Matias yeah
>> so it it's an optional parameter that
you may need for some  for some logic
then  we have the b
then we have the b
B contract role. So if you want to
create a vault for a specific use case
and for example combining multiple real
world assets
and you may need to  create these
and you may need to create these
roles in order to create a vault. So the
manager can do everything but taking the
user fonts. So you can change who is the
rebalance. You can change basically you
can change the the other roles.
Rebalance manager can only rebalance the
receiver can only do fe related stuff
and the emergency manager can rescue
funds from the users.
H so in order to create a vault
you can use it you can do it in our
front end then you need to invest or
rebalance for the first time so the
vault will know how to distribute the
funds automatically then you implement
it in your app in your front end and
start collecting fees.
>> Yeah I I want to go want you to go back
to the roles.
Yeah, here here there is a challenge
here. So if anybody wants to work on
that, how to manage like co how to
co-sign
these messages. So maybe the manager can
be like  a smart contract with
be like a smart contract with
different co-signers,
you know, or you can have you can use
like the cosign u structure of a stellar
maybe like created a front end that will
help like manage defined exults.
That's maybe something interesting.
>> Some ideas. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Multi multic. Thank you, Matias.
Then  if you want to do is do it this
Then if you want to do is do it this
programmatically or include this in a
front end, you just need to create this
trigger this function on our factory.
yeah. And then this is the front end we
have right now is just for creating
bolts.
So you just fill all the parameters here
and you will have your vote
and then then invest for the first time
you can use stellar C cli
[Music]
with the same with this instructions
and then
we also have an API
So
for the API
we we have an API key also for the
findings right that is public
I mean we check this  so
I mean we check this so
you can go to api defindex defindex.io
docs to see the complete documentation
on this.  you can also go to
on this. you can also go to
docs.define
defindex.io IO and you have like  more
defindex.io IO and you have like more
extensive documentation
and so yeah that's
and
this is like an example of how to
if you have already an API client you
can use something like this.  so for
can use something like this. so for
example if you are doing a front end to
use the a vault contract
erh
you you can call the our our endpoints
with the function deposit for example
you just set the amount  from from
you just set the amount from from
who is going to be
going to the deposit and we will return
the sign transaction then you sign it
and we can even send it for you. So if
you want to implement the vault in a
front end
this could be very useful.
>> Yeah we also have we also have we
>> Yeah we also have we also have we
have deposit withdraw and we have the
APY endpoints.
So you don't need you don't need to
build all those things.
>> Yeah. So and we are here to help you. So
please join the telegram group. We are
going to be there
answering as fast as we can
and yeah we are here to help you.
>> Great. Thank you for for the
introduction to Defendex and and to
Soros Swap.  I think it's it's  it's
Soros Swap. I think it's it's it's
great to see that some of the some of
the other teams that you are
>> you're at with the Draperu, they're
already starting to to look into how
they can integrate your  your services
they can integrate your your services
and I think many more projects in the
ecosystem could benefit from from
integrating with you guys.
Francisco, you are sharing your screen.
>> I can remove it.
>> Yeah, sure.
>> Okay.
>> I don't know if anybody has comments and
questions. I think there was a question
of Matias that was not answered.
, yeah. So, he asking so for the
source of a aggregator, he says you
don't need to specify the distribution.
So you don't have to hassle to do the
paths. That's  not completely right
paths. That's not completely right
because the aggregator needs as an as an
input the specific path
the contract. So the contract that he
cannot calculate what's the optimal
path. However the API is is the one that
will help you with that. And you can try
with the our API on on on on
public net.
So if you want to like start testing in
production, you can do it. And
yeah, we we calculate the best path
for you. But then the aggregator
contract needs that information.
And then
yeah.
>> Okay, great. Let's change tracks to
>> Okay, great. Let's change tracks to
the the hackathon. So right now we have
the the Stella hacks. I'll just share a
link for the hackathon. And  this
link for the hackathon. And this
hackathon is actually about building on
top of Defendex and and Soros. So maybe
if one of you can talk a little bit
about it. I can Are you sharing your
screen?
>> yeah.
>> Share this one.
>> No, it's it's not this one.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. But show to show the
the like to hacks web page. Yeah, let's
here we go.
>> Yeah.
>> So, this is the second second
hackathon we're doing with Stella hacks.
the first one was  integrating
the first one was integrating
blend. This one is focused on
building on on defendex and source swap.
So, so yeah.
tell me more about what what would you
like to see? What is
>> what what is what are people building?
>> So for example here in defy defy
integrations  is is my screen is
integrations is is my screen is
showing right?
>> Yeah.
>> so for example here we have a smart
>> so for example here we have a smart
wallets a smart wallet using source and
or the findex it will be great.
[Music]
So you can use our APIs  the Pasi kit
So you can use our APIs the Pasi kit
and build something with this
an staking contract for SA LP tokens.
so
that that would be great.
a re balancer bot
this this is great. I don't know if you
remember here but we have this role
and this role rebalancer manager. So
we can
you can create a vault with
where this rebalance manager can be the
bot
and and the bot can manage the portfolio
for us.
MCP servers that can I don't know I can
tell him tell him hey
I want to create a vault and rebalance
it that that could be very great
something to doing something like that
then for the the finex strategies. So
ah so for most of these  not for the
ah so for most of these not for the
LPS stack staking but for the smart
wallet rebalancer bot and MCP server you
will probably need to use  the APIs
will probably need to use the APIs
that we are providing.
but then if you want to use create
for example   an strategy
for example an strategy
you can start from the the index
protocol and modify the the contracts
for sample
where the index here. So this is the
main the main repo.  you can go to
main the main repo. you can go to
apps contracts
strategy
and start coding there for more the
index strategies and use all our the
already existing variable. So you don't
need to set up anything.
you you wanted to say something.
Yeah. Yeah, I I am very excited about
the strategies. I think this is like
the Finex is already  like very robust
the Finex is already like very robust
in the boats and we need more
strategies. We need someone that will
came with some new idea on how to manage
funds. You know, we thought about blend
and rebalancing, but you can think about
something more interesting.
So and and as as Francisco said is like
there is a trade already for that like
you don't need to and and that's a trade
that will be  will it be easy to plug
that will be will it be easy to plug
to plug it into into vaults
and another comment I wanted to say
about the rebalance is that  our our
about the rebalance is that our our
vault contract
when you are a rebalancing manager
the vault doesn't give you any like
access to the funds at all. It only
allows you to move from one strategy to
the another strategy. So that's why you
can feel confident of  experimenting
can feel confident of experimenting
with a rebalancer bot. All right.
I wanted to say that and about the LP
tokens as  Raph said in when we when
tokens as Raph said in when we when
we first talk about this  I am also
we first talk about this I am also
very excited about I want to see people
using LP tokens. So we created source
swap
erh
while like even while sorban was not on
main yet and we created in a way that LP
tokens were compatible with the classic
tokens. So and we want to see more
people using LP tokens. Maybe you can
send an LP token. Maybe you can stake
the LP token. Maybe you can create like
a liquidity pool of two LP tokens. I
don't know. Think about that. or maybe
a strategy can can need an LP token
to have an exposure 50/50 I don't know
to to different assets.
>> Yeah.
>> Great. So, there's still one week left
of the hackathon and  if you want to
of the hackathon and if you want to
if you haven't already started building
and and you think this could be a great
fun challenge to do and a great way to
to learn more about
>> source swap and and defendex then
>> source swap and and defendex then
this hackathon is a great opportunity.
go to the link that I shared in the
in the comments, the door hacks  link,
in the comments, the door hacks link,
you can read more about the the the
hackathon  the submission
hackathon the submission
requirements, the deadline and what to
do and and these these great examples of
what what  what the pot team think
what what what the pot team think
could be fun to to see and would love to
see being built. So So yeah, go check it
out. It's it's a it's a it's a great fun
hackathon and as I said there's one week
left so plenty of time to do something
fun.
>> It's up to the 1st of August but yes
until the 1 of August.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. And and final comment we will be
helping. If you have any question please
ask them directly. ask the question
directly because some maybe we don't
have the best documentation. I don't
know we are trying to do our best
together with a lot of things we are
trying to do. So please be patient if we
if we don't if we don't have if you if
you think you don't understand please
ask because probably maybe we don't have
that answer in the documentation and
it's  very good way to help us to
it's very good way to help us to
improve our documentation. We built
these APIs so you don't need to inter
interact directly with contracts, but
you don't need to do it if you really
had want to hack hard, you know. So,
yeah, thank you Karen for for the
opportunity and Raph and Boxy and all
the team organizing this hackathon and
Jerome.
>> Yeah, they they're really doing a great
job with these mini hackathons. So, big
shout out to them as well.  I see
shout out to them as well. I see
Raph
shared a a link to the the Telegram
group for the hackathon. So yeah, ask
away if you have any questions. It's
there's still time to build something
something cool. So So please  visit
something cool. So So please visit
the hackathon page.
>> Okay, great. Any any other questions
before we  we end this call?
before we we end this call?
doesn't look like there's
>> anymore. But thank you for joining. I
know it's it's a crazy busy week for
you.  being at at Draperu  is is a
you. being at at Draperu is is a
lot of fun, but it's also a lot of work.
>> We we were pitching the Findex to Tim
Draper on Tuesday.
>> Yeah, Tim Draper is is is a VC legend
>> Yeah, Tim Draper is is is a VC legend
here in Silicon Valley. He was one of
the first investors in many cool
companies like like Tesla, SpaceX, and
ton more companies. So being a being
having the opportunity to pitch Tim
Driver is is definitely an awesome
opportunity.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Because we think we think that the
millions of users will have their first
Savings account through a wallet, not a
traditional bank.
>> Yeah.
Great.
>> Okay. Thank you everyone and
>> you too guys. we'll be back here
>> you too guys. we'll be back here
on Twitter next week. Thank you everyone
for joining. Thank you. Bye
>> bye. Bye.
>> Good idea, Matias.